Just realized: ChatGTP isn't hallucinating, these are Androids who are dreaming of electric sheep!

=====

Asked google bard why the movie Blade Runner is so much different from the book:

> the concept of the movie changed a lot during production, did unreleased versions of the move deal with the post-apocalyptic theme?
View other drafts

Yes, there are several unreleased versions of Blade Runner that deal with the post-apocalyptic theme. The most well-known of these is the workprint version, which was released in 1982. This version of the film is much longer than the theatrical release, and it includes several scenes that were cut from the final film. One of these scenes is a prologue that sets the film in the context of the post-apocalyptic world of the novel. In this scene, we see the aftermath of the nuclear war that has devastated the Earth. We see the ruins of cities, the bodies of the dead, and the survivors who are struggling to survive in a world that has been turned upside down.

The workprint version of Blade Runner also includes several other scenes that deal with the post-apocalyptic theme. For example, there is a scene where Deckard and Rachael visit a refugee camp where people who have been displaced by the war are living. There is also a scene where Deckard has a dream about a world that has been destroyed by nuclear fire.

The inclusion of these scenes in the workprint version of Blade Runner makes it clear that Ridley Scott originally intended for the film to be more faithful to the novel's post-apocalyptic setting. However, the studio ultimately decided to cut these scenes from the theatrical release in order to make the film more accessible to a wider audience.

> can you provide a reference for this information?

Sure. Here are some references that you can use to learn more about the unreleased versions of Blade Runner:

    The Final Cut: The Definitive Edition of Blade Runner by Paul M. Sammon
    Blade Runner: The Illustrated Story by John W. Campbell, Jr.
    Blade Runner: The Complete Screenplays by Hampton Fancher and David Peoples

These books provide detailed information about the different versions of Blade Runner, including the workprint version. They also include interviews with the filmmakers and cast members, as well as behind-the-scenes photos and artwork.

You can also find information about the unreleased versions of Blade Runner on the following websites:

    The Blade Runner Online Encyclopedia
    The Blade Runner Fandom Wiki
    The Blade Runner News Network

These websites have articles, interviews, and other information about the film, including the different versions that have been released.


====

Now I am re-reading "Do Androids dream of electric sheep" by Philip K Dick, so writing down the memorable phrases/scenes. 

/actually pasting out memorable phrases is a nice trick - for staying focused on the text, while you have half a hundred tab windows open in the web browser.../

---

"If you dial," Iran said, eyes open and watching, "for greater venom, then I'll dial the same. I'll dial
the maximum and you'll see a fight that makes every argument we've had up to now seem like
nothing. Dial and see; just try me." She rose swiftly, loped to the console of her own mood organ,
stood glaring at him, waiting."

 "My schedule for today lists a six-hour self-accusatory depression," Iran said.

 "But a mood like that," Rick said, "you're apt to stay in it, not dial your way out. Despair like that,
about total reality, is self-perpetuating."

"I can't dial a setting that stimulates my cerebral cortex into wanting to dial!

"But," Rick interrupted, "for you to have two horses and me none, that violates the whole basic
theological and moral structure of Mercerism."

"Medieval plagues had manifested themselves in a similar way, in the form of many dead rats. This plague, however, had descended from above"

" And, in dubious addition to them, occasional peculiar entities remained in the
virtually abandoned suburbs.
 John Isidore, being yammered at by the television set in his living room as he shaved in the
bathroom, was one of these."

"Upon him the contempt of three planets descended.
However, despite this, he survived."

"Better, perhaps, to turn the TV back on. But the ads, directed at the remaining regulars, frightened
him. They informed him in a countless procession of ways that he, a special, wasn't wanted. Had no
use. Could not, even if he wanted to, emigrate. So why listen to that? He asked himself irritably.
Fork them and their colonization"

" Not let him know I'm a chickenhead. If he finds out I'm a cliickenhead he
won't talk to me; that's always the way it is for some reason. I wonder why?"


"The Soviet police can't do any more
than we can,"

"Empathy, evidently, existed only
within the human community, whereas intelligence to some degree could be found throughout every
phylum and order including the arachnids. For one thing, the emphatic faculty probably required an
unimpaired group instinct; a solitary organism, such as a spider, would have no use for it; in fact it
would tend to abort a spider's ability to survive. It would make him conscious of the desire to live on
the part of his prey. Hence all predators, even highly developed mammals such as cats, would starve."

"A Mercerite sensed evil without understanding it. Put another way, a Mercerite was
free to locate the nebulous presence of The Killers wherever he saw fit."

"Experts, he realized. A mammoth corporation like this - it embodies too much experience. It
possesses in fact a sort of group mind. And Eldon and Rachael Rosen consisted of spokesmen for
that corporate entity. His mistake, evidently, had been in viewing them as individuals. It was a
mistake he would not make again."


"But an empathy box," he said, stammering in his excitement, "is the most personal possession you
have! It's an extension of your body; it's the way you touch other humans, it's the way you stop being
alone.

"But something about Buster Friendly irritated John Isidore, one specific thing. In subtle, almost
inconspicuous ways, Buster ridiculed the empathy boxes. Not once but many times. He was, in fact,
doing it right now. ... Maybe Buster is jealous, Isidore conjectured. Sure, that would explain it; he and
Wilbur Mercer are in competition. But for what?
Our minds, Isidore decided. They're fighting for control of our psychic selves; the empathy box on
one hand, Buster's guffaws and off-the-cuff jibes on the other."

"There is only one cat like Horace. He used to -
when he was just a kitten - stand and stare up at us as if asking a question. We never understood
what the question was. Maybe now he knows the answer." Fresh tears appeared. "I guess we all will
eventually."


" The deep-pile carpets, the expensive genuine wood desks, reminded him
that garbage collecting and trash disposal had, since the war, become one of Earth's important
industries. The entire planet had begun to disintegrate into junk, and to keep the planet habitable for
the remaining population the junk had to be hauled away occasionally . . . or, as Buster Friendly
liked to declare, Earth would die under a layer - not of radioactive dust - but of kipple."

"What kind of world is it, he asked himself, when an android
phones up a bounty hunter and offers him assistance? "

"It's a good thing I know something about opera, Rick reflected. That's another advantage I have
over Dave; I'm more culturally oriented."

"Too bad. And Mozart, not long after writing The Magic Flute, had died in his thirties - of
kidney disease. And had been buried in an unmarked paupers' grave.
Thinking this he wondered if Mozart had had any intuition that the future did not exist, that he had
already used up his little time. Maybe I have, too, Rick thought as he watched the rehearsal move
along. This rehearsal will end, the performance will end, the singers will die, eventually the last score
of the music will be destroyed in one way or another; finally the name "Mozart" will vanish, the dust
will have won. If not on this planet then another. We can evade it awhile. As the andys can evade me
and exist a finite stretch longer. But I get them or some other bounty hunter gets them. In a way, he
realized, I'm part of the form-destroying process of entropy. The Rosen Association creates and I
unmake. Or anyhow so it must seem to them."

"Who are you?" Her tone held cold reserve - and that other cold, which he had encountered in so
many androids. Always the same: great intellect, ability to accomplish much, but also this. He
deplored it. And yet, without it, he could not track them down."

"An android," he said, "doesn't care what happens to any other android. That's one of the
indications we look for."
"Then," Miss Luft said, "you must be an android."
That stopped him; he stared at her.
"Because," she continued, "Your job is to kill them, isn't it?"

"Maybe that's a false memory. Don't androids sometimes go around with false memories?"


"You androids," Rick said, "don't exactly cover for each other in times of stress."
 Garland snapped, "I think you're right; it would seem we lack a specific talent you humans
possess. I believe it's called empathy."

"Then at one time an authentic Garland existed," Phil Resch said. "And somewhere along the way
got replaced." His sharklike lean face twisted and he struggled to understand. "Or - I've been
impregnated with a false memory system. Maybe I only remember Garland over the whole time. But
- " His face, suffused now with growing torment, continued to twist and work spasmodically. "Only
androids show up with false memory systems; it's been found ineffective in humans."


There's something very strange and
touching about humans. An android would never have done that." She glanced icily at Phil Resch. "It
wouldn't have occurred to him; as he said, never in a million years." She continued to gaze at Resch,
now with manifold hostility and aversion. "I really don't like androids. Ever since I got here from
Mars my life has consisted of imitating the human, doing what she would do, acting as if I had the
thoughts and impulses a human would have. Imitating, as far as I'm concerned, a superior life form."


"I see a pattern. The way you killed Garland and then the way you killed Luba. You don't kill the
way I do; you don't try to - Hell," he said, "I know what it is. You like to kill. All you need is a
pretext. If you had a pretext you'd kill me. That's why you picked up on the possibility of Garland
being an android; it made him available for being killed. I wonder what you're going to do when you
fail to pass the Boneli test.

You'll tell me the truth, won't you?" Phil Resch asked. "If I'm an android you'll tell me?"
"Sure."
"Because I really want to know. I have to know." 

If I test out android," Phil Resch prattled, "you'll undergo renewed faith in the human race. But,
since it's not going to work out that way, I suggest you begin framing an ideology which will account
for- "
Do you have your ideology framed?" Phil Resch asked. "That would explain me as part of the
human race?"
Rick said, "There is a defect in your empathic, role-taking ability. One which we don't test for.
Your feelings toward androids."
"Of course we don't test for that."
"Maybe we should." He had never thought of it before, had never felt any empathy on his own
part toward the androids he killed. Always fie had assumed that throughout his psyche he
experienced the android as a clever machine - as in his conscious view. And yet, in contrast to Phil
Resch, a difference had manifested itself. And he felt instinctively that he was right. Empathy toward
an artificial construct? he asked himself. Something that only pretends to be alive? But Luba Luft had
seemed genuinely alive; it had not worn the aspect of a simulation.

"Don't the androids keep you company? I heard a commercial on - " "The androids," she said, "are lonely, too."

"Don't call him that, Pris," Irmgard said; she gave Isidore a look of compassion. "Think what he
could call you."

Our trip was between a mental hospital on the East
Coast and here. We're all schizophrenic, with defective emotional lives - flattening of affect, it's
called. And we have group hallucinations."


"You're androids," Isidore said. But he didn't care; it made no difference to him. "I see why they
want to kill you," he said. "Actually you're not alive." Everything made sense to him, now. The bounty
hunter, the killing of their friends, the trip to Earth, all these precaution

"That's right, Mr. Baty," Isidore said. "But what does it matter to me? I mean, I'm a special; they
don't treat me very well either, like for instance I can't emigrate."


"You're intellectual," Isidore said; he felt excited again at having understood. Excitement and pride.
"You think abstractly, and you don't - " He gesticulated, his words tangling up with one another. As
usual. "I wish I had an IQ like you have; then I could pass the test, I wouldn't be a chickenhead. I
think you're very superior; I could learn a lot from you."

"If he was an android," Roy said heartily, "he'd turn us in about ten tomorrow morning. He'd take
off for his job and that would be it. I'm overwhelmed with admiration." His tone could not be
deciphered; at least Isidore could not crack it. "And we imagined this would be a friendless world, a
planet of hostile faces, all turned against us." He barked out a laugh.

 "I won't say anything more. But if we turn this down I don't think we'll find
any other human being who'll take us in and help us. Mr. Isidore is - " She searched for the word.
"Special," Pris said.

"A goat is loyal. And it has a free, natural soul which no cage
can chain up. 

"Rick said, "I took a test, one question, and verified it; I've begun to empathize with androids, and
look what that means. You said it this morning yourself. 'Those poor andys.' So you know what I'm
talking about. That's why I bought the goat. I never felt like that before. Maybe it could be a
depression, like you get. I can understand now how you suffer when you're depressed; I always
thought you liked it and I thought you could have snapped yourself out any time, if not alone then by
means of the mood organ. But when you get that depressed you don't care. Apathy, because you've
a sense of worth. It doesn't matter whether you feet better because if you have no worth - "


"Do androids
dream? Rick asked himself. Evidently; that's why they occasionally kill their employers and flee here.
A better life, without servitude. Like Luba Luft; singing Don Giovanni and Le Nozze instead of toiling
across the face of a barren rock-strewn field. On a fundamentally uninhabitable colony world."  


Roy Baty (the poop sheet informed him) has an aggressive, assertive air of ersatz authority.
Given to mystical preoccupations, this android proposed the group escape attempt,
underwriting it ideologically with a pretentious fiction as to the sacredness of so-called android
"life." In addition, this android stole, and experimented with, various mind-fusing drugs,
claiming when caught that it hoped to promote in androids a group experience similar to that of
Mercerism, which it pointed out remains unavailable to androids

You know what I have? Toward this Pris android? "
 "Empathy," he said.
 "Something like that. Identification; there goes I. My god; maybe that's what'll happen. In the
confusion you'll retire me, not her. And she can go back to Seattle and live my life. I never felt this
way before. We are machines, stamped out like bottle caps. It's an illusion that I - I - personary -
really exist; I'm just representative of a type." She shuddered.

Rachael said, "Or we could live in sin, except that I'm not alive."


The chickenhead knows they're
androids; he knew it already, before I told him. But he doesn't understand. On the other hand, who
does? Do I? Did I? And one of them will be a duplicate of Rachael, he reflected. Maybe the special
has been living with her. I wonder how he liked it, he asked himself. Maybe that was the one who he
believed would cut up his spider.


"I'm not an android," the figure said. "My name is Mercer." It stepped into a zone of light. "I
inhabit this building because of Mr. Isidore. The special who had the spider; you talked briefly to him
outside."
"Am I outside Mercerism, now?" Rick said. "As the chickenhead said? Because of what I'm going
to do in the next few minutes?"
Mercer said, "Mr. Isidore spoke for himself, not for me. What you are doing has to be done. I
said that already." Raising his arm he pointed at the stairs behind Rick. "I came to tell you that one of
them is behind you and below, not in the apartment. It will be the hard one of the three and you must
retire it first." The rustling, ancient voice gained abrupt fervor. "Quick, Mr. Deckard. On the steps."


What a job to have to do, Rick thought. I'm a scoure, like famine or plague. Where I go the
ancient curse follows.
As Mercer said, I am required to do wrong. Everything I've done has been wrong from the start.
Anyhow now it's time to go home. Maybe, after I've been there awhile with Iran I'll forget

For Mercer everything is easy, he thought, because Mercer accepts everything.
Nothing is alien to him. But what I've done, he thought; that's become alien to me. In fact everything
about me has become unnatural; I've become an unnatural self.
